USER MANUAL
March 11th 2025
We value feedback and ideas, so feel free to reach out.
Please check the website for the latest firmware!
THANK-YOU!
Thank-you for adopting MEGAfm, the product of several years of work &
play.
MEGAfm offers a unique gritty texture that is uncommon for FM
synthesisers, plus an unprecedented hands-on control of all the synth’s
parameters.
We hope that you will enjoy making music with MEGAfm as much as we
have enjoy developing it!
ABOUT MKII
In September 2022 MEGAfm becomes MEGAfm MKII.
This updated version is identical in appearance and functionality but it
will include a pair of YM3438 chips instead of the YM2612.
The YM3438 is a variant of the YM2612 that is identical in functionality
and was featured in the Sega Megadrive II.
The circuit layout has also been updated to grant access to the FM chips
with minimal disassembly.
Indeed the chips are now socketed (removable) and accessible by
removing the bottom panel.
This allows customers to install alternate FM chips (like the YM2612,
modern alternatives or even custom sound chips).
Customers even have the ability to mix different versions of FM chip as
both slots can be configured individually.
MEGAfm MKII features the same audio circuitry and warm analog
distortion as the MKI, as a result both chips sound very similar inside of
MEGAfm.
The firmware will work identically on both versions.
Please refer to the bottom of the manual for chip-changing instructions.
YM2612/YM3438 Overview
“The Yamaha 2612/3438 Frequency Modulation (FM) sound synthesis IC
resembles the Yamaha 2151 (used in Sega’s coin-op machines) and the
chips used in Yamaha’s synthesisers.
It is famously known as the Sega Megadrive’s voice.
An FM channel is capable of expressing, with a high degree of realism, a
single note in almost any instrument’s voice. Chords are generally created
by using multiple FM channels.
The standard FM channels each have a single overall frequency and data
for how to turn this frequency into the complex final wave form (the
voice). This conversion process uses four dedicated channel components
called ‘operators’, each possessing a frequency (a variant of the overall
frequency), an envelope, and the capability to modulate its input using
the frequency and envelope. The operator frequencies are offsets of
integral multiples of the overall frequency.
There are 6 FM channels. Channels 3 and 6, have the capability to use a
totally separate frequency for each operator rather than offsets of integral
multiples (ch3 special mode). This works well for sound effects and
experimental instruments. “
Operators
There are four dedicated operators per voice which may be arranged in
eight different configurations, called “algorithms”. Following is a diagram
of the algorithms.
Slots are indicated by shading.
   
Envelope Specification (now looping!)
Understanding the envelopes
The YM2612/3438 envelopes are powerful and original compared to
the ADSR we are all used to, but they can be confusing at first.
Since we are used to attack decay and release times taking longer as we
increase their knobs, MEGAfm uses the "higher the fader the longer it
takes" approach. As a result all the faders are decreasing the angles
printed on the silkscreen as they are moved upwards, except for attack
faders which increase it.
For example:
-during the AR (Attack Rate) Phase: The higher the fader, the longer it
takes for the attack phase to complete aka for the volume to reach TL
aka Total Level (rising fader = increasing the angle displayed on the
silkscreen)
-during the DR (Decay Rate) Phase: The higher the fader, the longer it
takes for the decay phase to complete aka for the volume to reach SL
aka Sustain Level (rising fader =  decreasing the angle displayed on the
silkscreen)
-during the SR (Sustain Rate) Phase: The higher the fader, the longer it
takes for the level to fall from sl to zero (rising fader =  decreasing the
angle displayed on the silkscreen)
-during the RR (Release Rate) Phase: The higher the fader, the longer it
takes for the release complete aka drop to zero after key release (rising
fader = decreasing the angle displayed on the silkscreen)
Below is the official description as found on the data sheets
Thanks MAXIM for the excerpts: https://www.smspower.org/maxim/Documents/YM2612
The sound starts when the key is depressed, a process called ‘key on’.
The sound has an attack, a strong primary decay, followed by a slow
secondary decay. The sound continues this secondary decay until the key
is released, a process called ‘key off’. The sound then begins a rapid final 
decay, representing for example a piano note after the key has been
released and the damper has come down on the strings.
The envelope is represented by the above amplitudes and angles, used
in the above diagram are:
Looping the envelopes
Since firmware version 3.0, the four operator's envelopes can now loop
individually, resulting in fascinating modulations of both dynamics (when
looping the carriers) and timbre (when looping the modulators).
To create an envelope loop, follow these steps:
1. Move one of the faders associated with the desired envelope.
2. Within a brief timeframe, you can activate the envelope loop
using the LFO loop button.
3. Additionally, you can control the looping direction of the
envelope by utilizing the saw and triangle LFO waveform buttons. When
the saw waveform is lit, the envelope loops from the attack phase to the
release phase. On the other hand, when the triangle waveform is lit, the
envelope loops in a ping pong manner.
TL Total level, the highest amplitude of the waveform.
AR Attack rate, the angle of initial amplitude increase. This can be made
very steep if desired. The problem with slow attack rates is that if the
notes are short, the release (called ‘key off’) occurs before the note has
reached a reasonable level.
DR The angle of initial amplitude decrease.
SL The amplitude at which the slower amplitude decrease starts.
SR The angle of secondary amplitude decrease. This will continue
indefinitely unless ‘key off’ occurs.
RR The final angle of amplitude decrease, after ‘key off’.
Envelope Rate Scaling
With the introduction of firmware version 3.6, we now have the capability
to adjust the rate scaling for each operator. This feature speeds up
envelope at higher note frequencies, creating an effect similar to that of a
piano. It is particularly effective when using looping envelopes.
How to Adjust Rate Scaling:
 Press and hold the 'LOOP' button. This action enables the rate scaling
adjustment mode.
 While holding the 'LOOP' button, use any of the detune faders to
change the rate scaling amount.
Rate Scaling Range and Resolution:
The rate scaling can be set within a range of 0 to 3.
Preset Memory:
Any adjustments made to the rate scaling of an operator are
automatically saved within each preset.
Voicing Section
MEGAfm offers up to 12 voice polyphony.
The 12 voices are spread across two YM2612/3438 chips.
In all modes you can use the fat knob to detune the voices.
Hold voicing mode button and the fat knob becomes glide.
Glide knob determines the time it takes for each voice to change pitch
when a new note is played.
Mono Mode:
When a single TS 6.35mm jack is plugged into output1, both chips are
summed to output1.
Stereo Mode:
When a second TS 6.35mm jack is plugged into output2, the 2 chips will
be split between outputs 1 and 2 (6 voices per chip/output)
Voicing Modes
There are several voicing modes available. Press the voicing button to
change through them
Poly12
The Poly12 features a 12-voice polyphony that is distributed between two
chips in an alternating left/right configuration.
Wide6
Both chips can play up to 6 notes but can be detuned with the fat knob
Wide4 (all LEDs lit) and Wide3 (3 LEDs lit)
Same as wide6 but limited to 4 & 3 voices respectively, always staggered
Note: These modes are optional modes that can be activated using the
web tool if unavailable
Dual ch3
YM2612/3438 offers a special mode where the 4 operators of channel3
can be individually detuned to arbitrary frequencies as described above
in the YM2612/3438 Overview. Recommended for experimental /
percussive sounds.
Dual ch3 has 2 possible modes: duo phonic (alternating between chip 1
and 2) and monophonic stereo (firing both chips at once). Press LFO3
chain button to toggle between modes. Display will show d3 for duo
phonic mode and S3 for stereo mode.
Unison
All voices are played at once in unison and detuned using the fat knob.
Turn the fat knob clockwise to gradually detune all 12 voices. At
maximum fat, the 12 voices are arranged in a chord. 3 Note priority
modes are available: Highest, Lowest (factory default) and Last note
priority. Press retrig in setup mode to toggle between the 3 modes.
Display will show Hi, Lo(w) or LA(st) accordingly. 
Auto Chord
To use the auto chord feature, please follow these instructions:
1- Hold down a chord on your MIDI keyboard.
2 - While still holding the chord, press and hold the REC and press the
voicing button to engage the auto chord feature. To free up your hands
for pressing buttons, we recommend using the sustain pedal.
If you wish to disengage auto chord, simply repeat the same button
presses as before. Note that if you activate auto chord without holding
down any keys, MEGAfm will select a chord from its built-in selection.
Fat
Adjust the 'Fat' knob to precisely adjust the tuning of all 12 voices in any
voice mode. When in Unison mode, you have the ability to manipulate
the voices from a slightly detuned configuration, commonly referred to as
'fat,' all the way to a grand chord similar to the sound of THX.
For all other modes, the voices can be detuned either by one semitone
or one octave. Additionally, there are two distinct tuning setups available
for you to choose from. Please refer to the setup and tool guide to learn
how to select between these two ranges and tuning options.
Glide
When you hold the voicing button the fat knob becomes glide. Adding
glide increases the time it takes each voice to reach its new pitch.
Volume
Adjust the volume of the current preset by utilizing the dedicated volume
knob. It is important to note that a digital potentiometer is employed to
regulate the volume, enabling it to be saved and remembered between
different presets.
However, it is worth mentioning that digital potentiometers can produce
an audible clicking noise known as 'zipper noise' when the values are
changed. To minimize this noise, the volume is only updated after the
knob has been adjusted, not during the adjustment process. Therefore,
kindly allow a quarter of a second for the volume to change accordingly.
Additionally, you can choose to bypass the preset volume option, which
will allow the volume knob to remain fully manual.
Please refer to the settings & tool chapter for more details
Preset tuning
Hold voicing and use the vol/tune knob to tune your preset within a 1
octave range.
If you need finer tuning precision use the fat/glide knob which allows for
1 semitone range.
Important: you must first move the vol/tune knob to enable the finer
tuning & the voicing button must be held during all tuning.
Preset Octave Tranpose
When you hold the voicing button you can use the preset up and down
buttons to transpose the preset up to 3 octaves.
Algorithms & Feedback
Use the algorithm knob to select any of the 8 algorithms and the
feedback knob to set the amount of operator1 feedback.
Note: both parameters can be modulated by LFO!
Vibrato
Use the depth knob to add vibrato to the overall pitch of MEGAfm.
Use the vibrato rate knob to set the vibrato’s speed.
The vibrato can be configured to sync to incoming MIDI clock at 8
different speeds, please refer to SETUP instructions for more details.
Arpeggiator and Sequencer
The arpeggiator has 7 modes:
Up (shown as “UP” on the numeric display)
Down (shown as “dn” on the numeric display)
Up/Down aka pendulum (shown as “Ud” on the numeric display)
Random1 (shown as “r1” on the numeric display)
The arpeggiator chooses and plays any of the held keys at random.
Random2 (shown as “r2” on the numeric display)
The arpeggiator chooses and plays any notes at random.
Sequencer1 and 2 (shown as “S1” and “S2” on the numeric display)
The arpeggiator acts as a sequencer playing up to 16 notes that can be
recorded via MIDI.
In S2 mode, the sequencer avances a step every time a key is pressed
and not in S1 Similarly to a Casio VL Tone.
Note: Since firmware 4.0 the arp is available in all voicing modes!
Recording a sequence
To record a sequence press rec to activate recording mode. The rec LED
will flash.
Now play up to 16 notes via MIDI. Each preset can store up to 16 notes.
Every time you input a note, the step recorder will advance and the
numeric display will show the current step.
You can use the preset up button to skip a step. No note will be played.
You can also go back a step with the preset down button if you wish to
correct a note.
The arpeggiator can be set to sync to incoming MIDI clock at 8 different
speeds defined by the rate knob. Please refer to Setup for details.
Modulators ( LFO 1 to 3)
Any knob or fader can be modulated by up to 3 LFO modulators at once.
To link a knob or fader to an LFO
move a knob or fader then press a chain link button.
Click the chain button a second time to unlink a knob or fader
from an LFO. The LED above the chain button indicates whether
the modulator is linked or not. Each knob or fader can link to up
to 3 LFOs at once.
To unlink all the knobs/faders from an LFO
hold the chain button for 4 seconds, until the letters CL appear on the
numeric display.
Selecting an LFO waveform
To select any of the 3 LFOs simply
move one of the LFO rate or
depth knobs.  
Use the 4 waveform buttons to select a waveform. The saw can be
converted to a ramp. Press the saw button several times to toggle
between version. (display will indicate Sa(w) or rA(mp) accordingly.
The Square can be inverted (high for the first or second half of the LFO
cycle), press the square button to invert it. 
LFO depth
Set the depth of an LFO with its depth knob. This defines the amount of
effect the LFO will have on the associated knobs or faders.
LFO rate
To set the LFO rate, use the rate knob. LFOs can sync to MIDI clock and
offer 10 tempo divisions (4 bars to 1/32 of a bar). The LFO waveform LED
displays the rate. Note that LFOs can modulate other LFOs but not
themselves. Please refer to the SETUP instructions for further details on
how to sync the LFO to MIDI clock.
LFO1 polyphonic velocity mode.
Since firmware 4.0 you have the option to modulate any fader linked to
LFO1 polyphonically (per note) with velocity allowing you to control the
volume or timbre of individual notes.
To activate LFO1 velocity enter setup mode and turn the LFO1 depth
knob beyond 50%.
Note: The Rate knob is disabled if LFO1 is set to be overridden by
Velocity (“Ve” is displayed as a reminder when the rate knob is moved).
The LFO1 depth knob sets the velocity modulation amplitude.
LFO3 polyphonic aftertouch mode.
Since firmware 4.0 you have the option to modulate any fader linked to
LFO3 polyphonically (per note) with key pressure (aka aftertouch)
allowing you to control the volume or timbre of individual notes.
To activate LFO3 aftertouch enter setup mode and turn the LFO3 depth
knob beyond 50%.
Note: The LFO3 rate knob is disabled if LFO3 is set to be controlled by
Aftertouch (“at” is displayed as a reminder when the rate knob is moved).
The LFO3 depth knob sets the maximum amplitude of the modulation
retrig
When this feature is active each keypress will retrigger the LFO from the
beginning of its cycle. Otherwise the LFO will only trigger on the first key.
loop
When this feature is active the LFO will loop endlessly instead of in a oneshot manner.
Looping noise
When an LFO is set to noise, it can send a loop through a table of
randomly generated values. The table length can be 8, 16, 32, or infinite
values. Press the noise waveform multiple times to set the table length.
The screen will show 8, 16,32 or blank (a new random). Every time you
press the noise waveform, the tables are regenerated.
The table length setting is stored globally for each LFO.
Presets
MEGAfm has 600 a preset memory capacity arranged in six banks of 100
presets.
MEGAfm currently ships with 50 factory presets (0-49) organised
according to the following chart.
Each preset can be edited and stored and preset banks can be
transferred to and from a computer via MIDI SYSEX.
Misc 0-9
Bass 10-19
Lead 20-29
Pads 30-38
Rhythmic 39-44
SFX 45-49
Loading a Preset
To load a preset, press the preset up or down buttons. In order to switch
between banks, press the preset up or down button, and within three
seconds, use the six LFO waveform buttons to select the desired bank.
During this time, the current bank will flash to indicate that a change is
being made. The preset number will automatically display after a couple
of seconds without touching knobs or faders.
Saving a preset
You have the ability to store the current preset into any of the available
100 slots of the 6 banks. To initiate the saving process, simultaneously
press the preset up and down buttons to enter the save mode.
The numeric display will then begin to flash the current slot number,
indicating that the preset is ready to be saved. At this point, a threesecond countdown will begin, automatically saving the preset into the
same slot. However, if you wish to bypass the countdown and
immediately save the preset, simply press the arp rec button.
You can also cancel the save process by pressing reset before the
countdown expires.
Moreover, you can alter the destination slot by pressing the preset up or
down buttons. You can also alter the destination bank by pressing the 6
LFO waveform buttons. Each time you select a new slot or bank,
the three-second timer will be reset. Once you have successfully chosen
the desired slot number, you may press rec button to confirm the save, or
simply wait for a few seconds until the numeric display stops flashing.
Preset reset / panel update
Occasionally, starting afresh can be quite refreshing! To replace the
current preset with preset 0, simply press the reset button at any time.
Once pressed, the numeric display will indicate "P0" to confirm that
preset zero has been loaded.
Furthermore, if you press the reset button a second time, MEGAfm will
read all the faders and knobs on the control panel and match them with
the settings on the device. The numeric display will then indicate "PA" to
signify that the panel settings have been restored.
Preset randomiser
Hold reset a couple seconds to completely randomise your preset,
anything could happen!
Setup Mode & MIDI Tool
Hold voicing at startup or anytime for 3 seconds to enter setup mode.
“SE” appears on the numeric display
LED Brightness
Turn the vibrato depth knob to adjust brightness
LFO1 to 3 sync to incoming MIDI clock
Turn the respective LFO rate knob to choose whether to link LFO1,2 or 3
to the MIDI clock.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
Vibrato sync to incoming MIDI clock
Turn the vibrato rate knob to choose whether to link the vibrato to the
MIDI clock.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
Velocity controls LFO1
Turn the lfo depth knob to choose whether to control lfo1 with MIDI
velocity. With this option activated, the MIDI velocity will override LFO1.
Use the depth knob to adjust the amount of effect.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
The numeric display will indicate “Ve” followed by “On” or “Of”
Mod wheel controls LFO2
Turn the LFO2 depth knob to choose whether to control LFO2 with the
mod wheel. With this option activated, the mod wheel (CC1) will control
the depth of LFO2 when the rate of LFO2 is above zero. When the rate is
zero (stopped LFO) the mod wheel will override the LFO and directly
modulate all parameters associated to the LFO. Use the depth knob to
adjust the amount of effect.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
The numeric display will indicate “C1” (for MIDI CC1) followed by “On”
or “Of”
MIDI Aftertouch controls LFO3
Turn the LFO3 depth knob to choose whether to control LFO3 with the
mod wheel. With this option activated, MIDI aftertouch will override
LFO3 and directly modulate all parameters associated to the LFO. Use
the depth knob to adjust the amount of effect.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
The numeric display will indicate “At” followed by “On” or “Of”
Arp sync to incoming MIDI clock
Turn the arp rate knob to choose whether to link the arp to the MIDI
clock.
Preset Volume on/off
Turn the volume knob to turn preset volume loading on or off.
When set to off, the preset volume will be ignored when changing preset.
Above 12 o clock the setting is on, below the setting is off.
The setting is indicated by ON/OF on the numeric display
MIDI THRU
Press the LFO1 link button to toggle MIDI THRU on/off.
When on, all incoming MIDI is sent to the MIDI output.
By default this setting is OFF.
Important: When MIDI Thru is ON, MEGAfm will no longer generate MIDI
& will only echo the incoming MIDI - it will no longer transmit on preset
change or fader movement for example.
Midi Channel ,Pitch bend up & down Learn
In setup mode you can set the input channel simply by sending MEGAfm
a NOTE ON message on any midi channel. When a new Midi channel is
registered, it is displayed on the numeric display after the letters “Ch”
MEGAfm can also learn the pitch bend ranges.
Pitch up and down can be any value from 1 to
48. Hold any key then press a key above the
first key to define the pitch bend up range or a
key key below it to define the pitch down
range (without releasing the first key).
For example if you wish for MEGAfm to bend
up 2 semitones and down 5 semitones, hold C
and press D then G without releasing C.
Note Priority in unison voicing mode.
Press the retrig button to choose:
-Low Note priority (Lo on screen). This is the factory default and most
-high Note priority (hi on screen)
-Last Note Priority
Ch3 special mode: Dual or Stereo
Press LFO3 link button to toggle between these modes, refer to voicing
modes page 6 for details about this special mode.
Fat mode range (in all modes but unison)
When you are in all voice modes but unison, the fat knob will detune the
12 voices in 2 possible ways: by 1 semitone (set the fat/glide knob below
51%) or by 1 octave (set the fat/glide knob above 50%).
The LED display will indicated 1S (1 semi) or 1o (1 octave) as you adjust
the setting.
MultiChannel MPE mode
MEGAfm has a special multichannel mode that allows you to control it
with an MPE device with multichannel pitch bends, in this mode you can
continuously bend each voice within up to 4 octaves. 
Press arp mode button to toggle this special mode on or off. When the
LED is on, MEGAfm is in normal single channel mode, when LED is off
MPE mode is active. When you choose MPE mode, the pitch bend range
is set to +/-48semi by default, you are free to change it before exiting
setup.
IMPORTANT: MPE mode only uses poly12 voice mode at this time.
The voice mode button won’t respond when MPE mode is active…
Parameter Pickup
This function allows the faders and knobs to update the
synthesiser only when they have first reached the preset
value. When Parameter Pickup is enabled, the LED screen
will indicate if the preset value is higher or lower than the
current position of the knob by use of 2 lines at the top or
bottom of the display. Once the preset value is reached,
the lines will be replaced by numbers and the synthesiser
will update.
Press the second LFO link button to toggle PP on or off.
Exit setup
Press voice mode button again to exit setup.
MIDI Tool
A MIDI tool is available for easily configuring parameters within Blast Beats.
The tool is hosted on a web page and requires no drivers or software
downloads. However, it does require a WebMIDI-enabled web browser
(Google Chrome is a good example).
Ensure that you have the latest firmware installed for the tool to function
correctly.
Visit twistedelectrons.com/tool to access the tool.
To begin, select the MIDI inputs and outputs connected to MEGAfm, then
press the Read button. The tool will synchronize with MEGAfm, after which
you can freely make any changes.
IMPORTANT: press the Write button to save any changes or they will be
lost! 
MIDI Implementation
MEGAfm responds to the following MIDI controls.
You can also control it with the Plugin (available for free download on the
website) which uses the following MIDI parameters. Note some volume
related parameters have been disabled after reports of Ableton Live 11
muting them unexpectedly.
Parameter MIDI CC Range
GLOBAL
FM Algorithm 4 1-8
Feedback 3 0-127
Fat 28 0-127
OPERATOR 1
Op1 Total Level 19 0-127
Op1 Detune 18 0-127
Op1 Multiplier 27 0-127
Op1 Attack Rate 29 0-127
Op1 Decay Rate 21 0-127
Op1 Sustain Level 25 0-127
Op1 Sustain Rate 17 0-127
Op1 Release Rate 30 0-127
OPERATOR 2
Op2 Total Level 40 0-127
Op2 Detune 31 0-127
Op2 Multiplier 32 0-127
Op2 Attack Rate 36 0-127
Op2 Decay Rate 44 0-127
Op2 Sustain Level 42 0-127
Op2 Sustain Rate 34 0-127
Op2 Release Rate 11 0-127
Parameter
OPERATOR 3
Op3 Total Level 16 0-127
Op3 Detune 20 0-127
Op3 Multiplier 24 0-127
Op3 Attack Rate 49 0-127
Op3 Decay Rate 50 0-127
Op3 Sustain Level 51 0-127
Op3 Sustain Rate 45 0-127
Op3 Release Rate 37 0-127
OPERATOR 4
Op3 Total Level 38 0-127
Op4 Detune 47 0-127
Op4 Multiplier 39 0-127
Op4 Attack Rate 46 0-127
Op4 Decay Rate 33 0-127
Op4 Sustain Level 41 0-127
Op4 Sustain Rate 43 0-127
Op4 Release Rate 35 0-127
LFO
LFO1 Rate 15 0-127
LFO1 Depth 12 0-127
LFO1 Depth (When Active in setup) Velocity 0-127
LFO2 Rate 10 0-127
LFO2 Depth 9 0-127
LFO2 Depth (When Active in setup) 1 (mod wheel) 0-127
LFO3 Rate 14 0-127
LFO3 Depth 2 0-127
LFO3 Depth (When Active in setup) Aftertouch 0-127
ARP
ARP Rate 6 0-127
ARP Range 5 0-127
Parameter MIDI CC Range
Preset Upload/Download (SYSEX
DUMP)
MEGAfm holds 600 presets in its memory. The presets are divided into 6
banks of 100 presets.
You can transfer 50 presets at a time (or half a bank) to and from
MEGAfm via MIDI SYSEX.
To download a half bank from MEGAfm to a computer hold preset
DOWN at startup. Then choose a BANK using the 6 LFO waveform
buttons. Press the BANK button to toggle between A (first half / presets
0-49) or B (second half / presets 50-99).
When ready press preset DOWN again to send the presets.
MEGAfm will reboot when finished.
To upload a half bank to MEGAfm from a computer hold preset UP at
startup. Then choose a BANK using the 6 LFO waveform buttons. Press
the BANK button again to toggle between A (first half / presets 0-49) or B
(second half / presets 50-99).
When ready press preset UP again to prepare MEGAfm for the presets.
Now send the presets from your computer via a recommended MIDI
SYSEX software. MEGAfm count to 99 while it stores the presets and will
reboot when finished.
VIBRATO
Arp Rate 48 0-127
Arp Depth 13 0-127
Parameter MIDI CC Range
Firmware update
You can transfer new (or old) firmware to MEGAfm via MIDI SYSEX.
Hold Arp MODE at startup. This will boot MEGAfm in update mode with
all LEDS on. Now transfer the SYSEX file with recommended software via
a MIDI interface. The LEDS will blink during the transfer, and MEGAfm
will reboot when complete.
For SYSEX transfers we recommend SYSEX LIBRARIAN for MAC and
MIDIOX for Windows. Here is a MIDIOX update demo video
IMPORTANT: It is crucial to ensure that
your SYSEX software is specifically
configured with a 64-byte buffer setting.
Any deviations from this setting may result
in update failures.
Some MIDI interfaces require a larger Delay
After F7 setting for a successful transfer.
It is also recommended to close the DAW
or any other applications that send and
receive MIDI during a software update.
Note: the firmware version is displayed as X.X for a half second at startup
for revisions 1.1 and onwards.
It is reported that MIDI SYSEX transfer utility also works well on PC. The
delay time must be set to 150 milliseconds.
Important: The first time you update from 2.4 and below to 3.0 and
above, MegaFM will automatically reorganise some preset data. The
message “CL” will appear during this process that can take up to 30
seconds.
Firmware files are independent. You can safely install any version on to
any other, earlier or later.
Factory Reset
If you wish to restore the device to factory state, hold reset at startup.
This will erase internal EEPROM and replace presets 0-50 with built-in
factory presets. During the procedure MEGAfm will display “RE” for
reset.
Power specifications
The recommended PSU is DC 9V 450mA Centre Positive
Frequently Asked Questions
1: Q: I can no longer change voice mode!
 A: Please check that you haven’t activated MPE mode in setup.
Indeed MPE mode only uses poly 12 mode.
If you wish to use other voice modes Please return setup and press arp
mode to turn MPE off ( display should show 1C aka single channel).
Changing Chips (MKII only)
If you own a MEGAfm MKII you have the ability to change the chips.
This gives you the option to remove the YM3438 and insert a YM2612
instead (rendering the unit identical to MKI).
To open MEGAfm simply turn it upside down and remove the 7 screws
from underneath. The whole bottom part of the cassis can now be
removed and set aside. Loosen the 3 audio jack nuts if if it is still tight.
YM2612 chips require a different set of resistors which are included on
the circuit board.
Following the instructions printed
under the circuit board we simply
add some solder across the 4 jumper
pads to activate YM2612 mode and
remove the solder to re-activate the
default YM3438 mode.
Once solder is added to the jumper pads you can easily open and close
them with a horizontal or vertical brush of your soldering iron.
Chip1 and chip2 are completely independent so you can safely mix
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
types.
